Docs: managing environments (#9737)
supabase/supabase: apps/reference/docs/guides/cli/environments.mdx

## Overview

The Supabase CLI provides the tools you need to manage multiple environments.

> In this guide, we will show you how to setup your local Supabase development environment that integrates with GitHub Action to automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to set up your local Supabase development environment that integrates with GitHub Actions to automatically
```

test and release schema changes to staging and production Supabase projects.

To get started:

- [Install the Supabase CLI](/docs/guides/cli)

> - Create a Supabase project, or use an existing one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a [Supabase project](https://app.supabase.com) or use an existing one
```

> - Initialise a local Git repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Initialize a local Git repository
```

> ## Setting up a local environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up a local environment
```

The first step is to set up your local repository with the Supabase CLI:

```bash
supabase init
```

You should see a new `supabase` directory. Then you need to link your local repository with your Supabase project:

```bash
supabase login
supabase link --project-ref $PROJECT_ID
```

You can get your `$PROJECT_ID` from your project's dashboard URL:

```
https://app.supabase.com/project/<project-id>
```

> If you're using an existing Supabase project, you might have made schema changes through the dashboard.
> You need to pull these changes before making local schema changes from the CLI. You can do this by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using an existing Supabase project, you might have made schema changes through the Dashboard.
Run the following command to pull these changes before making local schema changes from the CLI:
```

```sql
supabase db remote commit
```

This command creates a new migration in `supabase/migrations/<timestamp>_remote_commit.sql` which reflects the schema changes you have made previously.

Now commit your local changes to Git and run the local development setup:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "init supabase"
supabase start
```

You are now ready to develop schema changes locally and create your first migration.

> ## Creating a new migration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a new migration
```

There are two ways to make schema changes:

1. Manual migration: Write DDL statements manually into a migration file
1. Auto schema diff: Make changes through Studio UI and auto generate a schema diff

### Manual migration

<!-- ![Manual migration](/img/guides/cli/diff-manual.png) -->

Create a new migration script by running:

```bash
supabase migration new new_employee
```

You should see a new file created: `supabase/migrations/<timestamp>_new_employee.sql`. You can then write SQL statements in this script using a text editor:

```sql
create table public.employees (
  id integer primary key generated always as identity,
  name text
);
```

> Next, you can apply the new migration to your local database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the new migration to your local database:
```

```bash
supabase db reset
```

This command recreates your local database from scratch and applies all migration scripts under `supabase/migrations` directory. Now your local database is up to date.

:::tip

The new migration command also supports stdin as input.
This allows you to pipe in an existing script from another file or stdout:

`supabase migration new new_employee < create_employees_table.sql`
:::

### Auto schema diff

Unlike manual migrations, auto schema diff creates a new migration script from changes **already** applied to your local database.

<!-- ![Auto schema diff](/img/guides/cli/diff-auto.png) -->

> Start by creating an `employees` table under the `public` schema using Studio UI, accessible at [localhost:54323](http://localhost:54323/) by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an `employees` table under the `public` schema using Studio UI, accessible at [localhost:54323](http://localhost:54323/) by default.
```

GRANT ALL ON TABLE public.employees TO service_role;
```

> You may notice that the auto generated migration script is more verbose than the manually written one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may notice that the auto-generated migration script is more verbose than the manually written one.
```

> This is because the default schema diff tool does not take into account of default privileges added by the initial schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the default schema diff tool does not account for default privileges added by the initial schema.
```

> Finally, commit the new migration script to git and you are ready to deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commit the new migration script to git and you are ready to deploy.
```

:::tip

Alternatively, you may pass in the `--use-migra` experimental flag to generate a more concise migration using [migra](https://github.com/djrobstep/migra).

> Without the `-f` file flag, the output will be written to stdout by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without the `-f` file flag, the output is written to stdout by default.
```

`supabase db diff --use-migra`

:::

> ## Deploying a migration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy a migration
```

> In a production environment, we recommend use a CI/CD pipeline to deploy new migrations, rather than deploying from your local machine. We can achieve this by using GitHub Actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a production environment, we recommend using a CI/CD pipeline to deploy new migrations with GitHub Actions rather than deploying from your local machine.
```

![Deploy migration](/img/guides/cli/cicd-github.png)

> This example will use two Supabase projects, one for production and one for staging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses two Supabase projects, one for production and one for staging.
```

Prepare your environments by:

- Creating separate Supabase projects for staging and production

> - Pushing your git repository to GitHub and enable GitHub Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pushing your git repository to GitHub and enabling GitHub Actions
```

> We recommend adding these as [encrypted secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) to your GitHub Action runners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend adding these as [encrypted secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) to your GitHub Actions runners.
```

          version: 1.0.0

      - run: |
          supabase link --project-ref $PRODUCTION_PROJECT_ID
          supabase db push
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> The full example code is available on our [demo repository](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-action-example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full example code is available in the [demo repository](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-action-example).
```

> Commit these files to git and push to your `main` branch on GitHub. Finally, update these environment variables to match your Supabase projects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commit these files to git and push to your `main` branch on GitHub. Update these environment variables to match your Supabase projects:
```

- `SUPABASE_ACCESS_TOKEN`
- `PRODUCTION_PROJECT_ID`
- `PRODUCTION_DB_PASSWORD`
- `STAGING_PROJECT_ID`
- `STAGING_DB_PASSWORD`

When configured correctly, your repository will have CI and Release workflows that trigger on new commits pushed to `main` and `develop` branches.

![Correctly configured repo](/img/guides/cli/ci-main.png)

### Open a PR with new migration

> Follow the [migration section](#creating-a-new-migration) to create a file `supabase/migrations/<timestamp>_new_employee.sql`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [migration steps](#create-a-new-migration) to create a `supabase/migrations/<timestamp>_new_employee.sql` file.
```

git push --set-upstream origin feat/employee
```

> Then open a PR from `feat/employee` to `develop` branch and you will see that the CI workflow has been triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a PR from `feat/employee` to the `develop` branch to see that the CI workflow has been triggered.
```

> Once the test error are resolved, merge this PR, and watch the deployment in action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the test error is resolved, merge this PR and watch the deployment in action.
```
